Welcome to Cinema Summary, ladies and
gentlemen and there are three rules in
this house and if you were to disobey any one of them
the punishment would be most severe
now let me be transparent with you
I'm gonna go over the movies story very
quickly and very briefly following up
with a section dedicated to explaining
the ending.
Explaining things like
the bird, the bodies, the twins and the curse
as well as why Rachel wasn't taken at
the end of the film and if you're just
here for the ending explanation you can go
to this time stamp on screen now or down
below and with that out of the way
This is The Lodgers
So the Lodgers is about the orphaned twin siblings Rachel and Edward
living their spooky dilapidated mansion; living in Ireland after the
Irish War of Independence nearby a quiet
little village
in their own little world away from the world
you see there's something sinister afoot in this mansion
because there are three simple rules to
living here
First! They must be in bed by midnight
Secondly! Don't ever let a stranger inside
And thirdly! Never leave each other alone
and if the twins were to ever break these three rules they
would be promptly punished by them:
A mysterious group of individuals that can
only sometimes be seen or heard that
linger in the mansion punishing the twins
who live beneath the floors. Beneath the wooden trapdoor that rests at the
foot of the staircase waiting to leak
out and punish them.
Rachel & Edward have led a very isolated existence
with Edward being an introverted shut-tin
leaving Rachel to do the shopping for
the both of them but everything changes
for them on the day of their 18th
birthday when after she goes shopping
Rachel receives a letter and sees a
handsome war veteran named Sean
she reads the letter at the lakeside where she
hallucinates two bodies hovering over
the water when she gets home she sees
Edward hiding behind a pillar except
Edward's on the staircase. Huh.
Anyways, she tells Edward that they've run out of
inheritance money and the family
solicitor will be visiting soon
something neither of them are looking
forward to later she goes back to her
room, fantasizing about Sean when
Edward comes in with a birdcage and the
twins have a chat where we learn that
their parents passed away years ago and
they were also the ones that taught them
the three rules
That night Rachel goes to take a bath
and as she lays in the bathtub something happens
the trapdoor starts flooding, the bathroom
door locks itself
a ghostly voice whispers
and an eel appears in the bathtub
The next day, Sean prepares herself to
leave his house as an old man comes and
enters the mansion's premises.
This is Mr. Birmingham, the solicitor
of their family's estate who demands to
come inside and speak with Edward which
is against the rules so Rachel tries to keep him out long
enough to retrieve and give a pearl
necklace so that he can sell it off,
giving the twins a little money; as Sean
watches from afar
Rachel manages to get Mr. Birmingham away
from the house
leaving Edward alone stuck listening to
the trapdoor as it whispers to him.
As for Rachel, she deals with Mr. Birmingham who
suggests that she either sell the house,
sell Rachel's silver necklace or even
marry someone to stay financially secure
And she's not having it
Sean tries to follow Rachel who catches
him in the act and tells him to come back
tomorrow and returns home where strange
things are afoot
and that night Edward reveals to Rachel
that the twins are becoming more sensitive to the presence
of Them! Who are demanding that the twins
fulfill their destiny.
The next day, Sean and Rachel go to
the place where her parents died.
Taking him to the lake where they chat
and we learn that on the day
her parents drowned themselves
Rachel had woken up with the necklace
around her neck. It's the event that
traumatised Edward forever but what's
weirder is that all their ancestors died
the same way by drowning themselves
as he listens, Sean makes a move on her
only to be stopped by Rachel who asks
him to help her escape from her home but
he refuses but as that's happening,
Mr. Birmingham comes marching back to the estate
he's come back to return the pearl
necklace which has turned into a
necklace made of bones and as Edward
invites Mr. Birmingham inside with a knife
hidden in one hand
Sean and Rachel get intimate only to stop as Rachel
confesses to Sean about the truth of the
mansion which was built hundreds of
years ago to hide the shame of Rachel's
family. A curse, a stain that would follow
their family for generations haunted by
Them!
Them being the creatures who live below the house
and who made the rules
and that's when Mr. Birmingham gets shanked by Edward–now deathly pale
as a Rachel, hysterically breaks down and tells Sean to leave her alone!
"If you won't help her escape!"
When Edward tries pushing Mr. Birmingham into the trapdoor
Birmingham's body is suddenly yanked into the hole
as the Rachel comes back
late at night. She's briefly stopped by
Edward and reveals to him that
she intends to leave tomorrow with or
without him. She goes to her room to pack
where she's haunted by Them who show
Rachel terrifying visions and she wakes
up the next day to find water dripping
from the ceiling. Later Rachel runs into
Sean's sister who gives back Rachel's
necklace to which Rachel asks her if her
mother told her about Rachel's secret
you see the locket has a picture of
Rachel's parents who are not only twins
but are identical to Rachel and Edward–a
part of the stain upon their family
after that Rachel finds herself going to
the lake where a vision plays before
her eyes of Edward watching their
parents drown themselves
Rachel comes back to find Edward changed by them
and she tells him that their mother wanted
them to escape from the curse but Edward
reveals that the house is speaking to them
even through the bird in the cage.
A bird, Rachel can't see but she will see
soon enough their curse will make her
see things from his perspective but what
more he reveals that their cursed blood
draws them to each other
flaming a desire to have children with
each other.
To breed their immortality in the pit of her body
Edward tries to kiss her but Rachel
pushes him away but Edward's adamant, They
are telling him to claim her
But she lies! Lying to him that Sean has already claimed her, so Edward knocks her out
bringing her upstairs to their parents bed where
Edward begins to prepare himself only to
be interrupted by Sean knocking on the
door. He's come for Rachel and Sean is
brought inside as he and Edward have a
little chat with Rachel waking up
finding the door locked by Them.
It's then as Sean sees a painting on the
wall depicting a familiar looking couple
that he's attacked by Edward and the two
get into a scuffle with Edward
accidentally stabbing himself and
impaling Sean through the hand
Rachel waits with bated breath as the
door unlocks and Edward staggers into
the room, collapsing to the floor, locket in hand
as she listens to Sean's agonized screams of pain
as he tries to remove the knife from his hand
and that's when the clock rings, heralding the arrival of Them!
P,ale, nude and muck-stained
bodies. Who crawl up the stairs as
Rachel desperately tries to remove the
knife and when she does they disappear
So, Sean and Rachel tried to leave but
the doors are locked and Rachel backs
away and falls into the hole which Sean
dives into
where he finds himself in an upside down version of the mansion
and here Sean finds Rachel floating there
and just as they reunite Sean is dragged back by Them
and she's left to be surrounded by the wailing
ghoulish bodies of Them
Who stare at Rachel who manages to surface, in the lake!
She's alive but Sean's dead and when she goes inside
all that remains of him is his
fake leg and Rachel goes upstairs to
her parents room to find Edward lain in
bed
who's realized what happened:
Sean was taken instead of her
and although he's sorry for her loss
he hopes that maybe they
can be together but it's too late for that
Edward is dying and soon he'll be free from their curse, from life.
From all that, and they say their goodbyes with Rachel
taking her locket and leaving the house
although not before laying the locket
upon a gravestone and when she finally
makes it to the gate she sees Edward's
blackbird and takes one look at it
before leaving with the blackbird
following closely behind
So what was with that ending? Let's start with that bird
That bird is a representation and a symbol of the family curse and of Rachel herself
because Rachel is as free as a bird,
she's now no longer bound by her
cursed fate and is now free to go over-
wherever she wants to but that's not
entirely true because that bird was the
same bird that Edward has been
hallucinating seeing throughout the entirety
of the film implying that Rachel is now
Well, there's no (nice) way to say it, but she's crazy
driven a 'little' insane by her cursed blood because wherever she goes,
she might be free of her cursed fate, that
cursed blood still lives within her
and after all Edward did tell her that soon
she'll see things from his point of view
which brings me to the pale bodies
those are heavily implied to either be the
spirits or the reanimated corpses of
Edward and Rachel ancestors who have
been cursed to forever haunt the mansion
and its descendants
the descendants of Rachel & Edwards
Into fulfilling their destiny as prescribed by the curse
and the curse itself is much more complex than
just being haunted by ghosts and giving
birth to children who look exactly like
you.
No. Edwards lines about immortality adds a lot more context
you see the curse isn't just to die it's actually to be
reborn into the world, in the bodies of
your children who have this natural
desire to breed with each other and once
they're of age, once they commit the
cardinal sin of incest, they then kill
themselves out of shame and
the process repeats again and again and
there's a lot of hints of this throughout the
film with the locket, with the painting, and
the fact that the bodies–The "Them"
actually look exactly like Rachel and
Edward and the cherry on top of this theory
that confirms this–is that Brian
O'Malley, the director of the film posted
this on Twitter he's confirmed that the
curse itself is to be reborn into the
world again and again. Due to committing incest
eons ago which finally brings me
to Rachel why wasn't she taken at the end of the film?
Well, I believe it's due to the timing.
It wasn't the right time because Rachel wasn't a "de-virgin", she was still a virgin
and she hadn't given birth at the time that she was under water,
and I believe that this is a limitation
of the cursed ones ("Them")
They cannot claim someone who was not 'ripe' yet and
so they have no choice but to let her go
allowing her to escape from her family's
fate at least to some extent as we find
out at the end of the film and with that
being said thank you so much for
watching, ladies and gentleman if you
enjoyed it leave a like down below and
subscribe to get updated on my latest
uploads and don't forget
Don't break the rules